---
layout: page
title: Mellisa
nav_order: 2
parent: Experience Highlights
---

## Mellisa Mullen

Melissa worked for a small start-up in Manchester called URSA (Unmanned Robotics Systems Analysis), a company which creates risk management software for unmanned systems such as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), drones and counter-unmanned aircraft systems (CUAS). This software turns telemetry data into a more easily readable form for operators, which allows them to use their systems with reduced risk. Melissa's onboarding process and training was focused on analyzing a specific unmanned system flight and determining why this system crashed. After training, she spent two months working on a "classifier", a program which determines if a certain behavior has occurred, or a specific criterion has been met. The specific classifier which Melissa worked on determined whether or not an unmanned system was traveling in a straight line, and for how long. Later on in the internship, Melissa worked on two more classifiers, one for FAA compliance and one for system forensics.
When she was tasked with creating a classifier, the first phase of development was always brainstorming ideas for how to complete this task. During this phase of development, she would meet with her supervisor, who would help her understand what the end product might look like, using tools like whiteboard sketches and Q&A discussions. The next step was to find potentially relevant data sets. For example, for the straight line classifier, Melissa took data from flights she knew flew long straight line paths, as well as other flights which flew minimal straight lines, so in the future she could determine whether or not her classifier was giving accurate results. The next part of the process was building the first version of the classifier, a slow process involving lots of research, debugging, and meetings with supervisors. After the code was ready, it would be submitted to a supervisor who would review it and ask for changes. Typically, Melissa would need to submit a classifier three or four times before the supervisor was happy with the code.
Melissa's work environment was very locked down and secure. Because of her companies partnerships with the U.S. Air Force as well as the Department of Defense, she had to attend security workshops, had to use two factor authentication to log into her work computer, and did not have access to all the companies classifiers until late into the internship. Her company had daily staff meetings where she had to discuss her progress for the day, as well as biweekly check-in meetings with the director of engineering, monthly all-hands-on-deck staff meetings, and a few workshops.
Melissa is an Analytics and Data Science major, and she says that this internship was a great experience which taught her about the roles and responsibilities of a data scientist. She was very grateful for the oppurtunity to work in such a professional environment. She also enjoyed the smaller nature of the company, which at the time had only about ten employees. This meant that if she had questions about a piece of code, she could very easily find and ask the person who wrote it to help her understand. She was surprised but grateful to find out that despite the high security measures and sensitivity of data, her company had a very lenient corporate culture, which allowed for more casual dress, casual conversation, flexible work hours which allow you to clock in and out whenever you want (as long as you work enough hours), the ability to work from home, and weekly staff gatherings at a local bar. This helped reduce the stress of the internship for her greatly. The internship helped her become much more confident in her programming skills, as well as confident she was in the right field.
